.TH CREATEREPO-AGENT 1
.SH NAME
createrepo-agent - Rapidly and repeatedly generate RPM repository metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B createrepo-agent [\fBOPTION?\fR] REPO_CLUSTER_DIR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcreaterepo-agent\fR is a tool for rapidly iterating on clusters of associated RPM repositories. It leverages Assuan IPC to create a daemon process which caches the metadata for each sub-repository in the cluster so that it doesn't need to be re-loaded and parsed each time a change is made. The most notable implementation of the Assuan protocol is \fBgpg-agent\fR, which gives \fBcreaterepo-agent\fR its name.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B -h
.TQ
.B --help
Show program help text.
.TP
.B --daemon
Run the createrepo-agent as a detached background process.
.TP
.B --server
Run the createrepo-agent as a foreground process.
.TP
.B --import=\fIRPM_FILE\fR
Connect to an existing createrepo-agent process or spawn a new one, then import an RPM package into the repository cluster. May be specified multiple times.
.TP
.B --sync=\fIBASE_URL\fR
Connect to an existing createrepo-agent process or spawn a new one, then import RPM packages into the repository cluster from another. The \fIBASE_URL\fR may be a local file path or a remote URL. In the absence of \fB--sync-pattern\fR, any packages present in both repositories will be removed from the repository cluster and re-added from the upstream repository.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --arch=\fIARCH_NAME\fR
When importing, add the packages specified by \fB--import\fR into the sub-repositories for these architectures. When syncing, add packages from the upstream repository into the corresponding sub-repositories for these architectures. If not specified, default value is 'SRPMS'.
.TP
.B --invalidate-family
When removing binary packages during import, also remove any packages from that architecture sub-repository and associated debug sub-repository which were built from the same source RPM.
.TP
.B --invalidate-dependants
When removing binary packages during import, also remove any packages from that architecture sub-repository which (recursively) declare runtime dependencies on any package being removed.
.TP
.B --sync-pattern=\fIREGEX\fR
When syncing from another repository, only add and remove packages which match the given regular expression.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcreaterepo_c\fR(8)
